documentation for hopsworks.ai sso (#298)
logicalclocks/feature-store-api: docs/hopsworksai/sso/sso.md

# Hopsworks.ai Single Sign-On

> We will see here how to set up Single Sign-On for Hopsworks.ai. Once this is set up users from your organization will be able to directly sign in to Hopsworks.ai using your identity provider and without needing to manually create an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will see here how to set up Single Sign-On for Hopsworks.ai. Once this is set up users from your organization will be able to directly sign in to Hopsworks.ai using your identity provider and without the need to manually create an account.
```

      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/new_app.png" alt="New application">
    </a>
    <figcaption>New application</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Click on *Create your own application*. Give a name to your application, for example, *hopsworks_sso*. Make sure that *Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)* is selected and click on *Create*.

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/create_new_app.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/create_new_app.png" alt="Create your own application">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Create your own application</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Click on *Single sign-on*. Then click on *SAML*.

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/saml.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/saml.png" alt="SAML">
    </a>
    <figcaption>SAML</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

> Click on *Edit* in the *Basic SAML Configuration* section. Enter the *Identifier (Entity ID)* that you copy from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Enter the *Reply URL* that you copy from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Click on *Save*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on *Edit* in the *Basic SAML Configuration* section. Paste the *Identifier (Entity ID)* and *Reply URL* that you copied from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Click on *Save*.
```

      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_add_app.png" alt="Add New application">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Add New application</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Click on *Add a custom SAML 2.0 application*.

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_add_custom_app.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_add_custom_app.png" alt="Add a custom SAML 2.0 application">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Add a custom SAML 2.0 application</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Give a name to your application, for example, *hopsworks_sso*. Scroll to the bottom and click on *If you don't have a metadata file, you can manually type your metadata values*.

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_app_config.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_app_config.png" alt="Application configuration">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Application configuration</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

> Enter the *Application ACS URL* that you copy from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Enter the *Application SAML audience* that you copy from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Click on *Save changes*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste the *Application ACS URL* and *Application SAML audience* that you copy from the Hopsworks.ai setup page. Click on *Save changes*.
```

    </a>
    <figcaption>Edit configuration</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Click on Copy URL on the *AWS SSO SAML metadata file* line. We will call this URL *Metadata URL* in the coming steps.

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_metadata_url.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/aws_metadata_url.png" alt="Metadata URL">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Metadata URL</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

Go back to Hopsworks.ai. Click on *Next step* and keep following the documentation at [Configure Hopsworks.ai](#configure-hopsworksai).

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/next_step_azure.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/next_step_azure.png" alt="Next step">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Next step</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

## Configure Hopsworks.ai.
Give a name to your organization. This name will be used in your login URL so choose something you will remember. Here we will use *hopsworks-demo*.

> Past the set the *Metadata URL* you copied above and click *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste the *Metadata URL* you copied above and click *Finish*.
```

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/hopsworks_config.png">
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/hopsworks_config.png" alt="Configure Hopswoks.ai">
    </a>
    <figcaption>Configure Hopswoks.ai</figcaption>
  </figure>
</p>

> If you go back to the *SSO* tab of *Settings* you will get a *logging page* link. By using this link you will automatically be redirected to your identity provider to login. Account will automatically be created in hopsworks.ai for users of your organization when they log in for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you go back to the *SSO* tab of *Settings* you will get a *logging page* link. By using this link you will automatically be redirected to your identity provider to login. An account will automatically be created in hopsworks.ai for all users of your organization when they log in for the first time.
```

<p align="center">
  <figure>
    <a  href="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/login_url.png">

>       <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/login_url.png" alt="Configure Hopswoks.ai">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <img style="border: 1px solid #000" src="../../../assets/images/hopsworksai/sso/hopsworksai/login_url.png" alt="Configure Hopsworks.ai">
```
